Hello everyone, welcome back to EnglishPod, my name is Marco and I'm Erica and today we're gonna be bringing you another great sports lesson
Yes, this one is for all our hockey fans. I know we have a lot of listeners from Russia
So this is a very popular sport in Russia Czech Republic. Yes, so Canada and Canada, right?
Very very popular in Canada. It's our national game
Well, I guess because you guys have so much ice. I know there's nothing else to do
It's skiing and hockey
All right, so it's gonna be a really fun lesson. We're gonna have a lot of great vocabularies
So before we start in the dialogue, let's take a look at vocabularie preview
Very vocabulary preview
Well, we have three words for you now. The first one really simple
puck pup puck pup you ck so it's almost like duck but with the pee yes
And this is actually kind of like the ball that you use in hockey, but it's not a ball
But it's not a ball. It's flat. It's flat and round and round
so it looks like a disc kind of like a mini-freeze b. Yes, and
This is what the players do this is what they they chase this around
Yeah, so in basketball you have a ball and talk you have a ball in hockey. You have a puck. Yep. Okay, our next word
Key game a key game a key game a key game
So this word key important it means important really important really important. Yeah, so I can say a key game is a really important game
Exactly
You could also maybe say a key player key player is a really important player or even a key goal
A key goal. Okay, so let's take a look at our last word now
Finals finals
Final the finals so the finals are the last games. That's right and the winner of the finals
wins the championship. Okay, for example in the world cup in soccer
There's only one game played in the finals. So after everyone gets eliminated
There's one game where the winner is the champion. Yes, okay
So now we're ready to listen to our dialogue and it's gonna be a little bit faster than usual
Because it's a sports commentator and it's excited and it's exciting
There's a lot of action. So don't worry about it. Listen to it and then we'll come back and talk about some of the vocabulary
Hello everyone. I'm Rick Fields and here with me is Bob Copeland. Howdy folks and welcome to today's game
You know Rick today's a key game between Russia and Canada as you know the winner will move on to the finals
That's right and it looks like we're just about ready to start the match
The ref is calling the players for the face off and here we go
The Russians win position and immediately start up their attack
Federal gets checked hard into the boards
The least wish out has the puck now and he passes it to center. He shoots wow
What a save by the golly
All right the puck is back and play now. Heavy Moore is on a break away
He is flying down the ice. The defenders can't keep up. Slap shot. He scored what an amazing goal
All right, so the Canadians versus the Russians, huh? It reminds me of a classic classic game
He's exactly the classic match. Yep, so let's take a look at some of the vocabulary that we heard in the dialogue in language take away
Language take away
We have five phrases in language take away today. And the first one is
face off face off face off face off
So Marco a face off here is a noun, right? It's a noun exactly and it's so in the beginning of a match
The two players will stand face to face. Yes, right? That's why it's called kind of a face off
Mm-hmm, and the referee will drop the puck. Yes, and they'll try to get it exactly
So that's the face off the face off. Yeah, okay. Let's take a look at our next word
check check
To check to check
So an interesting verb here, right? Yeah, it's really interesting because it's different from
The way that you would say check or revise, right? Yes, yep. This is actually kind of a violent move
Yeah, so what do you do? So basically in hockey you take your body and you hit another person with it
Okay, so to check someone is to hit them with your body with your body, right? You can't use your arms or your legs or your hands
You can only hit them like with your shoulder or your or your hip yeah hip check. Okay. So yeah, it's very cool
All right
Our next word golly golly golly golly golly golly is a person right and
Probably the bravest
Uh-huh, the hockey match. No kidding. So why don't you tell us what the golly does?
The golly prevents the puck from coming in the net from going into the goal
Yeah, so the golly stops the other team from getting a goal a goal. Yeah, okay
So the golly prevents the goals. All right, very interesting now our fourth word is related to golly
Yes, save save save save save a save a save. Yeah, it's a noun here
It's a noun here. So the golly makes saves that's right when he stops a goal he
Makes a save makes a save. Yeah, right. Yeah, okay. We have some example. So we can understand this form of using save. Yes
Example one
That was an unbelievable save
Example two
The golly didn't make the save
Example three
What a save the Russians win
Yeah, a little bit unusual here that save is a noun instead of a verb
But I think those examples were helpful
Mm-hmm. Now let's take a look at our last word
Breakaway breakaway breakaway a breakaway a breakaway
Okay, so you have two words there that we know already break. Yes, all right and away. Yeah, so what are these two words together?
Well imagine a group of hockey players all fighting to get the puck, right? And then one player breaks off
breaks out of the group. Yeah, yeah, and he's he skates down the ice and he has the puck and he's far away from the other players
Right, so he's going away from the other players by himself. Yeah, okay, so break away
All right, so we've looked at a lot of hockey language here
And I think it's time now to listen to our dialogue again. This time we're going to slow it down a little bit. Yeah, I think this will help you to
Understand these words a little bit better
Hello everyone. I'm Rick Fields and here with me is Bob Copeland
Howdy folks and welcome to today's game. You know Rick today is a key game between Russia and Canada
As you know the winner will move on to the finals. That's right and it looks like we're just about ready to start the match
The ref is calling the players for the face-off and here we go
The Russians win possession and immediately set up their attack
Federal of gets checked hard into the boards
Moly Sly shot has the puck now and passes it to the center. He shoots wow what a save by the golly
All right the puck is back in play now
Pavel Buray is on a break away
He is flying down the ice the defenders can't keep up
Slap shot he scores what an amazing goal
Okay, this dialogue is interesting because we have commentators narrating or describing what's happening
Yeah, and that moment, right? Yeah, and they're using some interesting grammar aren't they?
Exactly, they are because some actions are happening in that moment
But we noticed something a little bit strange. All right, well, let's look at it and grammar break down
Rama break down
Okay, let's listen to this sentence that we previously heard in the dialogue
Moly Sly shot has the puck now and passes it to the center. He shoots
I noticed that he's using the present simple, right? Yeah, yeah, even though the action is now
It's in present simple. Yes, even though the action is happening in that moment
He's not using the present progressive. Yeah, doesn't continuous. Yeah
This is because if you notice the actions are very very brief and fast and fast and exciting
Exactly, so you don't really have enough time to say for example
He is shooting
Yes, because it's only one quick action. He shoots the puck very fast
Right, or for example, you wouldn't really say he is passing. Yeah, he is passing the puck right
It's just one quick action. He takes it and passes it and the action is finished. Yes, I think we can see a few more examples of this
Let's listen again
The Russians win possession and immediately set up their attack
Here we can hear that he is using the present simple again because these are very short actions that
Finish quickly, right? Exactly, and it's actually very very common when you're describing something you see
That's happening now. That's really exciting. It's common to use present simple
Exactly, if you pay attention most sporting events are in the same way. Yep
They would describe the actions that are happening in the present simple. Yeah, not present progressive. Yeah, but Marko you have an example of
Up some present progressive here, right? Yes. Let's listen to this sentence
He is flying down the ice
Now we heard the sentence. He is flying down the ice
Right now this one is in progressive. Yeah, why is that? Well, first of all when we say he's flying down the ice
It's not that he's literally flying. No, he's not an airplane. He's just skating really fast. Yeah, right?
So we kind of exaggerate and we say oh, he's flying down the ice
But he's actually skating. So this is a progressive action. So he is doing it. It's happening for more than one second
Yeah, yeah exactly. So that's why we would say he is flying down the ice instead of he flies down the ice
Yes, right? Yep, and let's say it was like really really really fast
Okay, okay, so here we see that sometimes in English we do use present simple to talk about what's happening now
When it happens really really quickly or when we want to show that it's really exciting
Exactly. Yeah, makes it much more exciting if we just use the present simple. Yeah, okay
Let's listen to this exciting dialogue one more time and we'll come back and talk a little bit more
Hello everyone. I'm Rick Fields and here with me is Bob Copeland. Howdy folks and welcome to today's game
You know Rick today's a key game between Russia and Canada as you know the winner will move on to the finals
That's right, and it looks like we're just about ready to start the match the ref is calling the players for the face off
And here we go the Russians win position and immediately start up their attack
Federov gets checked hard into the boards
But he's wish out has the pup now and he passes it to center. He shoots wow. What a save by the golly
All right, the pup is back in play now. Have a bore is on a breakaway
He is flying down the ice the defenders can't keep up
Slept shot. He scores what an amazing goal
All right, so hockey is the Canadian national sport
Well, actually it isn't the business for yeah, what is it lacrosse is our cross?
Yeah, but anyway, we're not we don't have a lesson about real cross today not yet no
But actually all Canadians love hockey
Like we start playing hockey when we're about two years old. Yeah, I've heard that yeah
I've heard that some Canadian children learn how to skate before they learn how to walk. It's totally comment
Well, it is a great sport very very exciting. It's very fast-paced and it's very aggressive
That's what I like about it. I know not violent but very aggressive. Yeah, but you know what I
Must tell you that I am not a good Canadian. You're not a hockey fan. No, I'm really yeah
I really I really hate hockey. Why I
You know the puck is so small it's hard to see where it is on the ice and it's cold and
These guys are fighting and anyway have you ever been to a hockey game? Yeah
Many times and I just find that the puck is really small
Maybe you just need better since maybe
Well, what do you guys think about hockey? We'll post some some videos and some pictures of hockey on on the comments section
So you can more or less see it a little bit more about this really interesting sport and tell us what you think about it
Yeah, so visit our website EnglishPod.com and you'll find some interesting stuff about hockey, right?
Exactly and also lots of other great lessons
I exactly and also if you have any questions or doubts about the less you can leave your questions on the site
All right, we're out of time. We'll see you guys next time. Thanks for listening and bye